# Happy Browser, Happy User
Resources &amp; Links for learning more about browsers

## Browser Architecture:

**Inside Look at Modern Web Browsers (Parts 1-4) - Mariko Kosakara**
https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/09/inside-browser-part1
https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/09/inside-browser-part2
https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/09/inside-browser-part3
https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/09/inside-browser-part4

Entering the Quantum Era—How Firefox got fast again and where it’s going to get faster - Lin Clark
https://hacks.mozilla.org/2017/11/entering-the-quantum-era-how-firefox-got-fast-again-and-where-its-going-to-get-faster/

How Browsers Work - Tali Garsiel and Paul Irish
https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/internals/howbrowserswork/

Modern Multi-Process Browser Architecture - Helge Klein
https://helgeklein.com/blog/2019/01/modern-multi-process-browser-architecture/

WebKit Architecture - Alexandru Chiculita
http://webkithacks.github.io/webkit_presentations/architecture/

How browsers work: Code Newbie Podcast - Lin Clark & Saron Yitbarek
https://www.codenewbie.org/podcast/how-do-browsers-work

## Networking:

TCP Slow Start - Stefan Wintermeyer
https://calendar.perfplanet.com/2018/tcp-slow-start/

A cartoon intro to dns over https - Lin Clark
https://hacks.mozilla.org/2018/05/a-cartoon-intro-to-dns-over-https/

HTTP Caching - MDN
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching

An overview of the SSL Handshake - Robert Van Rijn
https://medium.com/@vanrijn/an-overview-of-the-ssl-handshake-3885c37c3e0f

To push, or not to push?! The future of HTTP/2 server push - Patrick Hamann / JSConf EU 2018
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cznVISavm-k

## Parsing & Preloading:

Who's afraid of the big bad preloader - Yoav Weiss / Velocity 2014
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i7yf_tR6kKc

Building the DOM faster: speculative parsing, async, defer and preload - Milica Mihajlija
https://hacks.mozilla.org/2017/09/building-the-dom-faster-speculative-parsing-async-defer-and-preload/

An Introduction and Guide to the CSS Object Model (CSSOM) - Louis Lazaris
https://css-tricks.com/an-introduction-and-guide-to-the-css-object-model-cssom/

Javascript startup optimization - Addy Osmani
https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/javascript-startup-optimization/

JavaScript Engines: The Good Parts™ - Mathias Bynens & Benedikt Meurer / JSConf EU 2018
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5nmpokoRaZI

## Rendering & Compositing:

Rendering performance inside out – Martin Splitt / Front-Trends 2017
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BfMWAIc0xSU

Rendering performance (and all child pages!) - Google Web Fundamentals - Paul Lewis
https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/rendering/

The whole web at maximum FPS: How WebRender gets rid of jank - Lin Clark
https://hacks.mozilla.org/2017/10/the-whole-web-at-maximum-fps-how-webrender-gets-rid-of-jank/

Inside a super fast CSS engine: Quantum CSS (aka Stylo) - Lin Clark
https://hacks.mozilla.org/2017/08/inside-a-super-fast-css-engine-quantum-css-aka-stylo/

Accelerated Rendering in Chrome: The layer model - Tom Wiltzius
https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/speed/layers/
